TERUO: A college in Tokyo?
That's fine and all,
but what's over there for you?
A production company, huh?
Is that really the kind
of work you wanna do
your whole life?
Find your dream, Akira.
The biggest one you can.
Dreams keep a man solid.
Don't you ever forget that, son.
AKIRA: That's rich,
coming from you.
What do you know about dreams?
You're just a country farmer.
[Kana-Boon's "Song of the Dead"]
KENCHO: Whoo, finally,
we're almost
to Akira's hometown!
- I do hope your parents
are safe and sound.
- Oh, they're okay.
It'll take more than zombies
to get rid of my parents.
- Come to think of it,
I haven't met your parents,
Akira.
Gotta make a great
first impression with 'em.
First I'll hit 'em with
a one-liner...
- Hmm?
You haven't seen your parents
in three years, right?
both: Huh?
Don't tell me you're nervous
to see them.
- Uh, no!
Not even a little!
If anything...
I'm nervous it's gonna
be awkward.
Now that I quit my job,
what am I gonna say
when I see him?
- Akira!
- [gasps]
[AKIRA grunts]
[tires squealing]
What the...
I'll go check it out!
- [grunts]
- [exhales]
[gasps]
[zombies groaning]
Zombies.
- Your village is just beyond
the end of this tunnel,
isn't it?
- You don't think--
- The villagers
have already been...
- No.
I don't recognize any of them
from the zombies in here.
- Hmm.
[grunts]
SHIZUKA: Well, since we can't
get through the tunnel,
there's only one other way
to continue.
We'll cut through the forest
and over the mountain.
[cicadas chirping]
- [gasps]
- No reason to worry.
SHIZUKA: The entrance and exit
of the tunnel
were completely sealed.
Odds are the villagers
sealed away all the zombies
from the neighboring cities.
I'm sure the townspeople
and your parents are safe.
- [grunts]
- [distant scream]
- [gasps]
A scream?
- But where is it coming from?
- [shouting]
[all gasping]
- Run away!
AKIRA: Is that a zombie boar?
- Get down!
- [gasps]
- [speaking Japanese]
- [screams]
[boar snarls]
- [gasps]
- [exhales]
- Hey, are you all right?
[panting]
MASARU: Man, you really did me
a solid back there!
The name's Masaru Kumano.
Heh, nice to meet you folks.
[laughing]
- What are you doing out here
in the woods, Mr. Kumano?
- What am I doin'?
The cities are overrun
with monsters!
I was lookin' for a safe place
and ended up settling in here.
I gotta say that monster boar
was unexpected, though!
- Home is wherever you choose
to make it!
- Huh?
- I understand!
- That said, you can't just live
in the middle of the forest.
- [gasps]
AKIRA: This is...
could it be?
- Why, yes, it's a tree house!
Of course!
MASARU: I may not look it
but I'm actually
a master carpenter.
No house?
No problem!
I'll build one!
[laughing]
[AKIRA groaning]
both: Uh, what is happening?
You're a Japanese Tischler!
MASARU: You see, this here
is an oak tree.
Since oaks have large, thick,
sturdy branches,
they make the perfect host
for a tree house.
Southern trees rot too easily
but you can find some
northern trees in this area.
And amazing and rare forest
that's quite unusual
from a global perspective!
AKIRA: Mr. Kumano, there's no
telling when another zombie boar
will attack before
your tree house is completed.
This is a race against time.
It would be better if I had help
from more people, right?
- Well, uh, sure, uh...
- Aren't we racing against time
to see if your parents are safe?
- I can't believe
you'd ignore someone
in danger like Mr. Kumano!
Have a little heart,
won't you, Shizuka?
AKIRA: A secret base
of your own,
free from the troubles
of everyday life!
A building at one with nature
where you can embrace
the almighty power of the trees!
The design is limitless!
It's a treasure trove
of imagination!
A fortress suspended in midair!
A tree house!
Can we?
I mean, we only live once!
So can we please build
a custom tree house
with our bare hands?
- [chuckles]
Let's do it!
- [groans]
- I don't really know
what's going on,
but I'm counting on you!
[laughing]
BEATRIX: Affection, sympathy.
[SHIZUKA groans]
Why do men act like children?
- I did it!
- Hose?
- It's very difficult
to eyeball how level things
are between the trees.
A hose filled with water could
be utilized as a level.
- Whoa!
- So smart!
AKIRA: I see now.
You're right!
I thought it was level at first,
but it was totally off!
MASARU: And if you place
your nails and bolts in
the right spots,
they won't damage the tree!
both: Whoa, amazing!
- Leave five centimeters between
the boards so fallen leaves
don't get stuck!
both: Amazing!
MASARU: The thing is,
tree houses
are built differently
from tree to tree.
The tree itself
will tell you how to build it
and what kind
of house it'll end up being.
If you're not sure of something,
then just ask the forest.
- The forest?
- [chuckles]
That's right!
The foundation of a tree house
is the tree itself.
If the host tree dies,
the house is done for.
MASARU: When you think
of a tree,
think about the other trees
and the earth surrounding it.
Once you start doing that,
you'll soon become mindful
of the entire forest.
And that, boys, is how you hear
the voice of the forest.
- [gasps]
[hammer banging]
AKIRA: I see.
I feel like I just learned
something profound.
When you think of a tree,
think about the other trees
and the earth around it.
By doing that,
you'll become mindful
of the entire forest.
And that's how you'll hear
the voice of the forest, huh?
Does that mean if you think
of yourself and the others that
are around you,
you'll become mindful
of the entire world?
So one day I'll be able
to hear the voice of the world?
I wonder,
what would I wanna write
in my bucket list then?
MASARU: Hey, you've got quite
a knack for carpentry,
young man.
- R--Really?
You think so?
Thank you so much!
Ever since I was a little kid
I've always dreamed
about building a tree house.
- [laughing]
That's great to hear!
Funny you should say that.
My son used to pester me
to build a tree house
for him back when he
was just a kid.
- Aww!
So where's your son now,
Mr. Kumano?
[hammering]
[grunts]
Mister...
MASARU: My son was bitten by
my wife right before my eyes.
So I had no choice but
to deal with them myself.
I always put it off because
I thought I could take my time
and build a tree house
with him when he was older
and I had retired.
[sniffles]
People say when you're ready
to repay your parents
it's already too late.
[sniffs]
But it turns out
it works the other way around,
too.
[whimpering]
[gasps]
- I'll help in any way I can.
Let's finish this together.
- [whimpers]
Thank you, young man.
All right!
A little more and it's finished!
Let's dig in
and give it our all!
[hammering]
all: The tree house is complete!
both: This is
the best house ever!
[both gigging]
- This canned food
is actually delicious!
- It was the right call
to grab these from the store.
AKIRA: Mr. Kumano,
it's been great working
with you.
- If you need me,
I'll be right here in
the forest.
You fellas can count on me
to help you any time.
AKIRA: Thanks.
- That's unusual.
I thought you'd say,
"I wanna spend the night
in a tree house."
- [grunts]
Well...
Thing is, I guess
I just got the urge
to see my parents again,
you know?
[chuckles]
[KENCHO shouts]
[stammers]
Too close!
[shouts]
Aren't there any other routes we
can take, Akira?
AKIRA: This place use
to be called the Hungry Gorge
'cause of how many people
died here!
You know, until they opened
the tunnel,
this was the route
we always used
to and from the village?
[all stammering]
They say my village started out
as a penal colony.
Enclosed by steep mountains
and valleys.
It's like a remote island
on land.
[KENCHO shouts]
SHIZUKA: Careful!
- I can't believe we're alive.
- Why did you have to grow up
in such a bizarre
and wild place?
- 'Cause I'm wild!
You believe that?
SHIZUKA: Oh, I believe it.
BEATRIX: But thanks to all
of this,
it's more than likely
that everyone in
the village is still safe.
- [gasps]
Hey, there it is!
AKIRA: The village where I
was born and raised.
[all gasping]
AKIRA: Have I given
anything back
to my parents since becoming
an adult?
Their birthdays,
and my first paycheck--
I had plenty of opportunities.
But I guess I never really
thought about it until now.
Mother, father.
I'll be back home real soon.
[all gasping]
[AKIRA gasps]
No way.
What happened?
No one's here!
No, Mom and Dad.
I'm coming!
[all gasping]
- Akira!
- [grunts]
AKIRA: There's no way!
This can't be happening!
Please!
I'm begging you!
Please be safe!
Mom!
Dad, I'm here!
all: ♪♪ Heya ho, heya ho
Drink and dance and heya ho ♪♪
♪♪ Heya ho, heya ho
[all stammering]
BEATRIX: Wow!
- Huh?
What's that?
- Hang on a second.
You're Tendo's kid.
Am I right?
Akira!
MAN: Teruo! Akiko!
Akira is back in town!
- What?
Akira?
Is that you?
- [gasps]
Dad.
[whimpers]
[crying]
Thank you!
Thank you so much for working
your hardest every day just
to put me through college!
I really am thankful,
you know!
And Mom, thank you
for packing me lunch every day
and washing my club uniforms
after practice!
I wouldn't be alive today
if it weren't
for the both of you.
It's just I've given you nothing
but troubles and worries.
I'm sorry!
I've never done anything
to repay you!
I used work as an excuse
for not visiting you
for the past three years!
I'm sorry!
I really am s--
[blow lands]
[AKIRA groans]
[all gasping]
- [groans]
AKIRA: Ouch!
What was that for?
- Is that all you came
back here for?
To unload that nonsense?
The world's a complete mess
right now
so think a little before
you act.
- It's not nonsense!
TERUO: Are you all
Akira's friends?
He must have had
a hard time getting here.
We've got plenty
of empty rooms,
so feel free
to go get some rest.
KENCHO: Oh, thank you.
SHIZUKA: Thank you,
Mr. Tendo.
TERUO: I leave the rest
to you, dear.
I'm headed off
to the fields.
- [snarls]
- Your dad's nothing
like I thought he'd be.
[indistinct chattering]
AKIKO: We've got wild plants
we forage in the mountains
and vegetables from our fields.
We're a small and simple village
but please make yourself
at home.
- Thank you very much, ma'am!
We will!
all: Thank you for the food!
[chomping]
Whoa, so good!
- So this is tempura, ja?
- [chewing]
Have you been locked down here
sustaining yourselves
all this time?
- Yes.
We're a remote village
and we're sealed off
every winter anyway when
the snow comes down.
AKIKO: We've always been able
to survive the winter
by farming and hunting off
the land,
so this isn't much trouble
for us.
SHIZUKA: I see.
- Those zombies down in
the tunnel,
how did they get to be there?
- Upon hearing rumors that
this village might be safe,
a lot of people
from the city tried
to take shelter here.
Unfortunately, some
of those people were infected
and spread the infection
to those around them.
We were left with no choice
but to seal off the tunnel
in hopes of stopping
the infection in its tracks.
- I'm so glad you
and the others are okay!
We were all worried sick!
- We're okay.
And a number
of those same people
from the city survived.
The village
has been losing residents
for a while
so there's empty houses.
We let them inhabit those
so they're able
to live here alongside us.
- [speaking German]
Akira.
- Hmm?
- We should add historic
home renovation to your list!
- Oh, good idea!
[gasps]
Focus!
There's a reason I came back
to my parents' place!
I haven't repaid Mom
and Dad for raising me,
and I wanna do my best
to be a great son!
[KENCHO exhales]
This truly is a glimpse
of old Japan.
I know I wasn't born here
or anything,
but I feel like I've returned
to my own hometown.
It's nostalgic.
- Yeah.
- Ah.
AKIRA: Oh, let me do that!
You sit back and relax!
I'll handle the dishes for ya.
- Really?
- Check it out!
It's Biyoko Tweats!
Got 'em as a souvenir for ya!
- Oh, thank you, Akira.
- Oh, are you tired?
Do you need a massage?
- I'm all right.
- Well, then how about I take
you on a trip somewhere?
There's this amazing hot spring
in the mountains we found.
AKIKO: Akira?
- Mm?
- Thank you
for worrying about me and all,
but you must be exhausted
from your long journey.
Am I right?
AKIKO: I can do
the dishes myself.
You go get some rest.
[door creeks open]
TERUO: Hey, Akira.
- Hmm?
- I could use your help,
if you're free.
- [grunts]
- So, how have things
been lately, Dad?
Have your backaches stopped?
- No, still hurts,
like always.
- Oh, man.
You do all this work
out here by yourself?
I'm already getting tired.
Whew.
- Eh, it's really not that bad.
- But now that I'm here I'd be
more than happy to help you out
with anything--
- This is what we do.
Everyone in
the village works together
by doing their part.
That's how we make ends meet.
- [grunts]
Uh, right, yeah.
That makes sense, I guess.
[distant bird chirping]
This is harder than I thought.
How'm I gonna make it up
to Mom and Dad?
[groaning]
Ah, what do I do?
What do you have to do
to repay your parents?
- [wincing]
Well, guess I don't got
much time left.
AKIRA: Hey, Dad!
- [grunts]
- Green beans are ripe
for picking.
This should be enough
for dinner, right?
AKIRA: Uh, Dad?
Something wrong?
TERUO: I'm fine.
Don't worry about it.
[distant bird chirping]
- [gasps]
[grunts]
- Hmm?
Oh.
Those guys came from the city.
- I feel like I've
seen him before.
- Of course.
[zombies groaning]
[exhales]
HIGURASHI: Only 23,000 yen
for contract work
without any kind of bonus.
[inhales and exhales sharply]
Do they think I'm stupid
or something?
I guess working really
is for losers.
[grunts]
Dammit!
I should have
had that old lady get me more.
What a pain.
I wonder, when and why
did I start falling behind
those around me?
This monotonous life
of being unwanted by society,
by others.
I wish I could go back
to that time--
summer break and grade school
when I didn't have
to think about anything.
I could go to the public pool
with my friends every day
and do whatever I wanted.
[woman screams]
- Huh?
[woman screaming]
Help me!
- [gasps]
- Stop!
[zombie groaning]
[zombie roaring]
- [gasps]
- What the hell was he...
[breathing heavily]
[gasping]
[zombies roaring]
[snickers]
I'm free.
HIGURASHI: I'm free!
Those jerks in society looked
down upon me
but now they're gone!
They've all been destroyed!
It's summer right now every day
for the rest of my life!
[snickering]
[gasps]
[breathing heavily]
[quivering]
[breathing erratically]
[grunts]
[all shouting]
[gasps]
[snickers]
I gotta say, though,
going to the public pool by
yourself during summer break
is boring.
Hey, you three.
[all groaning]
Do you wanna have
some fun together or what?
HIGURASHI: Fire a real gun,
break all the windows in
the city.
Finally blow something up
with dynamite.
- I want to burn down
that stupid company
that insulted me.
ATENBO: Ooh!
What I wanna do is force my
tongue down a girl's throat!
- Write down, "slapping my bitch
of a wife."
HIGURASHI: Up until now,
society has shunned
and treated each
of us like rejects.
It's our turn to have fun
and break the rules they made.
Our last summer break
to do whatever it is we want!
All of us are stuck here
in this purgatory waiting
to meet our fate
of becoming a zombie.
But while we're waiting
for that fate...
...we might as well
do everything we want.
Be a shame if we didn't.
[Shiyui singing in Japanese]
[Shiyui's "Happiness
of the Dead"]
[upbeat music]